"You have the right to perform your duty, but not the fruits thereof." - Bhagavad Gita 2:47
"Set thy heart upon thy work, but never on its reward." - Bhagavad Gita 2:47
"The mind is restless and difficult to restrain, but it is subdued by practice." - Bhagavad Gita 6:35
"When meditation is mastered, the mind is unwavering like the flame of a lamp in a windless place." - Bhagavad Gita 6:19
"Whatever happened, happened for the good. Whatever is happening, is happening for the good. Whatever will happen, will also happen for the good." - Bhagavad Gita 2:27
"He who has no attachments can really love others, for his love is pure and divine." - Bhagavad Gita 2:56
"One who sees inaction in action, and action in inaction, is intelligent among men." - Bhagavad Gita 4:18
"The soul is neither born, and nor does it die." - Bhagavad Gita 2:20
"The peace of God is with them whose mind and soul are in harmony." - Bhagavad Gita 2:65
"When a person responds to the joys and sorrows of others as if they were his own, he has attained the highest spiritual union." - Bhagavad Gita 6:32
"A person is said to be elevated in yoga when, having renounced all material desires, he neither acts for sense gratification nor engages in fruitive activities." - Bhagavad Gita 6:4
"The power of God is with you at all times; through the activities of mind, senses, breathing, and emotions; and is constantly doing all the work using you as a mere instrument." - Bhagavad Gita 3:27
"As a person puts on new garments, giving up old ones, the soul similarly accepts new material bodies, giving up the old and useless ones." - Bhagavad Gita 2:22
"He who sees the Supreme Lord dwelling equally in all beings, the imperishable amidst the perishable, sees truly." - Bhagavad Gita 13:27
"One who is steady in the face of pain and pleasure is truly wise and fit for immortality." - Bhagavad Gita 2:15
"The wise see that there is action in the midst of inaction and inaction in the midst of action." - Bhagavad Gita 4:18
"He who has conquered himself is a friend to himself; but the one who has not done so remains his own enemy." - Bhagavad Gita 6:6
"Perform your obligatory duty, because action is indeed better than inaction." - Bhagavad Gita 3:8
"By devotion, he knows Me in truth, who I am and what I am. Having thus known Me in truth, he forthwith enters into the Supreme." - Bhagavad Gita 18:55
"For one who has conquered his mind, the mind is his best friend; but for one who has failed to do so, his mind will remain the greatest enemy." - Bhagavad Gita 6:6
"One who is unaffected by whatever good or evil he may obtain, neither praising it nor despising it, is firmly fixed in perfect knowledge." - Bhagavad Gita 2:57
"When he renounces all desires which have arisen from the thoughts of the mind, and is content in the self alone, then he is said to be one of steady wisdom." - Bhagavad Gita 2:55
"There is nothing lost or wasted in this life." - Bhagavad Gita 2:40
"In this world, three gates lead to hell—desire, anger, and greed. Renounce these three." - Bhagavad Gita 16:21
"The soul is never born, and it never dies; nor does it become only after being born." - Bhagavad Gita 2:20
"You are what your deep, driving desire is. As your desire is, so is your will. As your will is, so is your deed. As your deed is, so is your destiny." - Brihadaranyaka Upanishad
"From delusion lead me to truth. From darkness lead me to light. From death lead me to immortality." - Brihadaranyaka Upanishad
"That is the whole. This is the whole. From the whole, the whole becomes manifest. From the whole, when the whole is negated, what remains is again the whole." - Isha Upanishad
"The Self is not someone other than you." - Chandogya Upanishad
"As by knowing one lump of clay, all that is made of clay is known, so too by knowing Brahman, all is known." - Chandogya Upanishad
"The Self is indeed Brahman. Brahman is the Self." - Mandukya Upanishad
"The mind, indeed, is this fleeting world." - Maitri Upanishad
"When the five senses and the mind are still, and reason itself rests in silence, then begins the Path supreme." - Katha Upanishad
"There is no joy in the finite; there is joy only in the Infinite." - Chandogya Upanishad
"He is the One who rules over all, who allows no one to rule over Him." - Svetasvatara Upanishad
"The Self is hidden in the hearts of all, as butter lies hidden in cream." - Svetasvatara Upanishad
"When one realizes the Self, in whom all life is one, changeless, nameless, formless, then one fears no more." - Katha Upanishad
"Know the Self to be sitting in the chariot, the body to be the chariot, the intellect the charioteer, and the mind the reins." - Katha Upanishad
"As rivers, flowing down, merge in the ocean, losing their name and form, so the wise, freed from name and form, pass into the Divine, who is beyond all." - Mundaka Upanishad
"The wise, who knows the Self as bodiless within the bodies, as unchanging among changing things, as great and omnipresent, does never grieve." - Katha Upanishad
"The Self is dearer than a son, dearer than wealth, dearer than everything else, and is innermost." - Brihadaranyaka Upanishad
"The Supreme being is brilliant, formless, and more subtle than the finest; it is far beyond the reach of thought." - Mundaka Upanishad
"He who sees all beings in his own self, and his own self in all beings, by virtue of that, does not hate anyone." - Isha Upanishad
"He who perceives all beings as himself for him how can there be delusion or grief, when he sees this oneness?" - Isha Upanishad
"By the Self one knows form, taste, smell, sounds, touches, and carnal pleasures. Is there anything unknown to the Self?" - Brihadaranyaka Upanishad
"The world is the wheel of God, turning round and round with all living creatures upon its rim." - Svetasvatara Upanishad
"He on whom the sky, the earth, and the atmosphere are woven, and the mind with all the senses, know him as the one Self." - Mundaka Upanishad
"He is the one God, hidden in all beings, all pervading, the Self within all beings, watching over all works, dwelling in all beings, the witness, the perceiver, the only one, free from qualities." - Svetasvatara Upanishad
"When one sees this unity, in whom all beings have their origin and end, he merges with the supreme eternal self." - Chandogya Upanishad
"The Self is indeed Brahman, but through ignorance, people identify it with intellect, mind, senses, passion, etc." - Aitareya Upanishad
"He who sees the whole world as mere illusion, who regards all as the Self, remains at peace, pure, and free from desires." - Ashtavakra Gita 18:4
"He who is free from duality, who is the same in happiness and misery, content with what comes, unattached to friends and enemies, is liberated." - Ashtavakra Gita 14:5
"Knowing that the Self is pure, wise, free from desire, the witness of all, the liberated soul remains free from desire." - Ashtavakra Gita 18:8
"The liberated soul remains unaffected by the senses, like the reflection of the sky in a pot of water." - Ashtavakra Gita 17:10
"Realizing that all actions are performed by the body, but that the Self is untouched, the wise person lives as if there is no body." - Ashtavakra Gita 18:49
"The yogi who is satisfied with knowledge and wisdom, who remains unshaken, who has conquered his senses, to whom a clod, a stone, and gold are the same, is said to be harmonized." - Bhagavad Gita 6:8
"The wise man lets go of all results, whether good or bad, and is focused on the action alone." - Bhagavad Gita 2:50
"He who sees all beings as equal in suffering and in joy is a perfect yogi." - Bhagavad Gita 6:32
"One who has faith and is devoted, and who has subdued the senses, obtains knowledge." - Bhagavad Gita 4:39
"There is neither this world, nor the world beyond, nor happiness for the one who doubts." - Bhagavad Gita 4:40
"He who has no attachments can truly love others, for his love is pure and divine." - Bhagavad Gita 2:55
"In this world, there is nothing so sublime and pure as transcendental knowledge." - Bhagavad Gita 4:38
"The nonpermanent appearance of happiness and distress, and their disappearance in due course, are like the appearance and disappearance of winter and summer seasons." - Bhagavad Gita 2:14
"He who is satisfied with gain which comes of its own accord, who is free from duality and does not envy, who is steady in both success and failure, is never entangled, although performing actions." - Bhagavad Gita 4:22
"The person who is not disturbed by happiness and distress and is steady in both is certainly eligible for liberation." - Bhagavad Gita 2:15
"Abandon all varieties of religion and just surrender unto Me. I shall deliver you from all sinful reactions. Do not fear." - Bhagavad Gita 18:66
"For one who has been honored, dishonor is worse than death." - Bhagavad Gita 2:34
"One who neither rejoices nor grieves, neither laments nor desires, and who renounces both auspicious and inauspicious things, such a devotee is very dear to Me." - Bhagavad Gita 12:17
"One who acts in devotion, who renounces the fruits of his actions, and whose doubts are destroyed by transcendental knowledge, is truly situated in the self." - Bhagavad Gita 4:41
"One who is unattached to the fruits of his work and who works as he is obligated is in the renounced order of life, and he is the true mystic." - Bhagavad Gita 6:1
"A person who is not disturbed by the incessant flow of desires — that enter like rivers into the ocean, which is ever being filled but is always still — can alone achieve peace, and not the man who strives to satisfy such desires." - Bhagavad Gita 2:70
"For him who has conquered the mind, the mind is the best of friends; but for one who has failed to do so, his mind will remain the greatest enemy." - Bhagavad Gita 6:6
"As the ignorant perform their duties with attachment to results, the learned may similarly act, but without attachment, for the sake of leading people on the right path." - Bhagavad Gita 3:25
"He who is able to withdraw the senses from their objects, as the tortoise withdraws its limbs, is firmly fixed in wisdom." - Bhagavad Gita 2:58
"The Self is not this, not this. It is ungraspable, for it cannot be grasped; it is indestructible, for it cannot be destroyed; it is unattached, for it does not attach itself." - Brihadaranyaka Upanishad
"The Self is dearer than a son, dearer than wealth, dearer than anything else, and is innermost." - Brihadaranyaka Upanishad
"By the calmness of the mind and the control of the senses, one should know the Self to be the one without a second." - Svetasvatara Upanishad
"He is the innermost essence. He is the supreme reality, the all pervading, without qualities and without change. Thus, the seers know him, the self of all beings." - Katha Upanishad
"The supreme truth cannot be gained by argument, but it can be reached by the teachings of a realized master." - Mundaka Upanishad
"As fire, though one, takes the shape of every object which it consumes, so does the one Self take the shape of every object in which it exists." - Katha Upanishad
"The Self is not born, nor does it die. It does not come from anywhere, nor does it become anyone. It is unborn, eternal, everlasting, and ancient." - Katha Upanishad
"Know that the soul which pervades all beings is indestructible. No one can destroy the imperishable soul." - Katha Upanishad
"The wise man lets go of all results, whether good or bad, and is focused on the action alone." - Isha Upanishad
"The mind, indeed, is this fleeting world." - Maitri Upanishad
"The Self is not someone other than you." - Chandogya Upanishad
"You are what your deep, driving desire is. As your desire is, so is your will. As your will is, so is your deed. As your deed is, so is your destiny." - Brihadaranyaka Upanishad
"He who sees all beings in his own self, and his own self in all beings, loses all fear." - Isha Upanishad
"He who realizes that he is the supreme soul, and that the supreme soul is in all beings, he does not despise anyone and he sees all beings as his own self." - Isha Upanishad
"The Self is indeed Brahman. Brahman is the Self." - Mandukya Upanishad
"He who sees all beings in the Self and the Self in all beings, does not shrink away from anything." - Isha Upanishad
"The wise man who sees the same everywhere does not, by virtue of his wisdom, keep his mind on what is done and what is not done." - Ashtavakra Gita 13:2
"He who has transcended the mind and sees himself as the omnipresent Self, no longer acts or causes others to act." - Ashtavakra Gita 13:4
"The wise man who is free from doubts and whose mind is free from desires, who is indifferent to everything and has nothing to call his own, is liberated even while living." - Ashtavakra Gita 15:5
"For the seer who knows himself as imperishable and beyond pain, there is neither knowledge, a world, nor the feeling of agency." - Ashtavakra Gita 15:7
"The liberated soul abides in the Self, sees only the Self, and is at peace in the Self." - Ashtavakra Gita 17:4